firebase-test-lab/README.md, before:

# `firebase-test-lab` GitHub Action

This GitHub Action leverages gcloud CLI ([Android](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/android/command-line), [iOS](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/ios/command-line)), which could send your apps to Firebase Test Lab and lets you test your apps on a range of devices and configurations at once. Once all tests finish running, this GitHub Action will generate a summary in the JSON format.

## Prerequisite

-   A Firebase project. Follow the instructions [Setting up a Firebase project and registering apps](https://firebase.google.com/docs/projects/learn-more#setting_up_a_firebase_project_and_registering_apps).

-   Have a service account and enable required APIs. Create a service account with an Editor role in the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts/) and then activate it (see the [gcloud auth activate-service-account documentation](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/auth/activate-service-account) to learn how). Using the service account to log into Google and go to the [Google Developers Console API Library page](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/library). Enable the **Google Cloud Testing API** and the **Cloud Tool Results API** by typing their names into the search box at the top of the console and clicking Enable API.

-   Install and authorize the Google Cloud SDK. Firebase Test Lab GitHub Action will do this step for you if you provides **Google Cloud Service Account Key JSON** or **Workload Identity Federation**. Alternatively, you could do it by yourself. For more infomation: [google-github-actions/auth](https://github.com/google-github-actions/auth).

-   Python 2.7+. All the [GitHub-hosted runners](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-github-hosted-runners/about-github-hosted-runners) have Python 2.7+ preinstalled. But if you are using a [self-hosted runners](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/about-self-hosted-runners), please have Python installed first.

## Usage
```yml
jobs:
  ftl_testing:
    # ...

    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - name: Build your Apps
        ...
      - id: ftl_test
        uses: FirebaseExtended/github-actions/firebase-test-lab@v1.1
        with:
          testapp_dir: ${{ testapp_dir }}
          test_type: ${{ test_type }}
```

## Inputs

-   `test_type`: One of the following four test types that FTL supports: [xctest](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/ios/run-xctest), [instrumentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/android/instrumentation-test), [robo](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/android/robo-ux-test), [game-loop](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/android/game-loop).

-   `testapp_dir`: Testapps under this dir that will be tested. For XCTest, make sure you [packaged your app](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/ios/run-xctest#package-app) first. [TODO: needs better design] For instrumentation tests, you also need to package the apks: make sure the test apk name contains string "test" and the app apk doesn't (e.g. app-debug-unaligned.apk & app-debug-test-unaligned.apk -> app.zip).

-   `arg_groups` [**robo** & **instrumentation** test only]: Arguments in a YAML-formatted argument file, separate by ";". If there are conflicts between `arg_groups` and other inputs, arguments in `arg_groups` will be overrided by other inputs. Run [gcloud topic arg-files](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/topic/arg-files) for more information about argument files.
    
    Here are the contents of a YAML argument file which is stored in a file named demo_arg.yaml:
    ```yml
    unit-tests:
      type: instrumentation
      app: path/to/excelsior.apk
      test: path/to/excelsior-test.apk  # the unit tests
      timeout: 10m
      device-ids: NexusLowRes
      include: [supported-versions, supported-locales]
    
    unit-tests-2:
    ...
    ```
    `arg_groups` usage example:
    ```yml
    jobs:
    ftl_testing:
        # ...

        steps:
        - uses: actions/checkout@v3
        - name: Build your Apps
            ...
        - id: ftl_test
          uses: FirebaseExtended/github-actions/firebase-test-lab@v1.1
          with:
            arg_groups: demo_arg.yaml:unit-tests;demo_arg.yaml:unit-tests-2
    ```

-   `test_devices`: Devices used for testing, separate by ";". You could find out all the available devices in Test Lab here: [Android](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/android/available-testing-devices), [iOS](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/ios/available-testing-devices).
    `test_devices` usage example:
    ```yml
    jobs:
    ftl_testing:
        # ...

        steps:
        - uses: actions/checkout@v3
        - name: Build your Apps
            ...
        - id: ftl_test
          uses: FirebaseExtended/github-actions/firebase-test-lab@v1.1
          with:
            testapp_dir: ${{ testapp_dir }}
            test_type: ${{ test_type }}
            test_devices: model=redfin,version=30;model=oriole,version=33
    ```

-   `timeout` [default: 600s]: The maximum duration you want your test to run. You can enter an integer to represent the duration in seconds, or an integer and enumeration to represent the duration as a longer unit of time. 

-   `additional_flags`: Additional [gcloud firebase test](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/firebase/test) flags and values that may be used. e.g. `--xcode-version=11.3` for XCTest. 

-   `max_attempts` [default: 1]: Max retry attempts when test on FTL failed. 

-   (Optional) The following inputs are for installation and authenticating to Google Cloud. Firebase Test Lab GitHub Action leverages [google-github-actions/auth](https://github.com/google-github-actions/auth) and [google-github-actions/setup-gcloud](https://github.com/google-github-actions/setup-gcloud). 
    
    Example of authenticating via `credentials_json` (Service Account Key JSON). See [Creating and managing Google Cloud Service Account Keys](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys) for more information.
    ```yml
    jobs:
    ftl_testing:
        # ...

        steps:
        - uses: actions/checkout@v3
        - name: Build your Apps
            ...
        - id: ftl_test
          uses: FirebaseExtended/github-actions/firebase-test-lab@v1.1
          with:
            credentials_json: ${{ secrets.GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS }}
            testapp_dir: ${{ testapp_dir }}
            test_type: ${{ test_type }}
    ```

    Example of authenticating via `workload_identity_provider` and `service_account` (Workload Identity Federation). See [Setting up Workload Identity Federation](https://github.com/google-github-actions/auth#setup) for more information. (Note: For interal Google Cloud projects, Workload Identity Federation cannot be used by default. Please use Overground to modify Org Policy first.)
    ```yml
    jobs:
    ftl_testing:
        # ...

        steps:
        - uses: actions/checkout@v3
        - name: Build your Apps
            ...
        - id: ftl_test
          uses: FirebaseExtended/github-actions/firebase-test-lab@v1.1
          with:
            workload_identity_provider: ${{ workload_identity_provider }}
            service_account: ${{ service_account }}
            testapp_dir: ${{ testapp_dir }}
            test_type: ${{ test_type }}
    ```

## Output

This GitHub Action will collection all the test results and generate a summary in the JSON format.

Output usage:
```yml
- id: ftl_test
    uses: FirebaseExtended/github-actions/firebase-test-lab@v1.1
    with:
      ...
- run: echo '${{ steps.ftl_test.outputs.test_summary }}'
```

Test summary example:
```
{
  "project_id": ${project_id},
  "apps": [
    { # app_1
      "attempt": ${attempt_num},
      "cmd": ${cmd},
      "return_code": ${return_code}, # Script exit codes: https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/ios/command-line#script-exit-codes
      "testapp_path": ${app_path},
      "test_type": ${test_type}, # game-loop, xctest, robo, instrumentation
      "ftl_link": ${ftl_link}, # Test Lab page from Firebase console
      "raw_result_link":  ${raw_result_link}, # Google Cloud page that stores all the test artifacts
      "devices": [
        { # device_1
          "device_axis": ${device_axis},
          "outcome": ${outcome}, # Passed, Failed, Inconclusive, Skipped
        },
        { # device_2
          ... 
        }
      ],
    },
    { # app_2
      ...
    }
  ]
}
```

Commit message:

Add option to run tests on 1 randomly-chosen device from the list. (#7)
* Add option to run tests on 1 randomly-chosen device from the list.

Due to hiccups in FTL availability, sometimes you may want to distribute
your test runs onto different FTL device types.

This option allows you to pass in a list of test_devices, but rather
than running the test on *all* devices in the list, you can run the
tests on one randomly-chosen device from the list instead.

* Fix typo

* Add random selection in the other part of the script.

* Remove extraneous device setting.

* Add readme note for new param.

* Format.

* Format.

* punctuation

firebase-test-lab/README.md, after:

# `firebase-test-lab` GitHub Action

This GitHub Action leverages gcloud CLI ([Android](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/android/command-line), [iOS](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/ios/command-line)), which could send your apps to Firebase Test Lab and lets you test your apps on a range of devices and configurations at once. Once all tests finish running, this GitHub Action will generate a summary in the JSON format.

## Prerequisite

-   A Firebase project. Follow the instructions [Setting up a Firebase project and registering apps](https://firebase.google.com/docs/projects/learn-more#setting_up_a_firebase_project_and_registering_apps).

-   Have a service account and enable required APIs. Create a service account with an Editor role in the [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts/) and then activate it (see the [gcloud auth activate-service-account documentation](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/auth/activate-service-account) to learn how). Using the service account to log into Google and go to the [Google Developers Console API Library page](https://console.developers.google.com/apis/library). Enable the **Google Cloud Testing API** and the **Cloud Tool Results API** by typing their names into the search box at the top of the console and clicking Enable API.

-   Install and authorize the Google Cloud SDK. Firebase Test Lab GitHub Action will do this step for you if you provides **Google Cloud Service Account Key JSON** or **Workload Identity Federation**. Alternatively, you could do it by yourself. For more infomation: [google-github-actions/auth](https://github.com/google-github-actions/auth).

-   Python 2.7+. All the [GitHub-hosted runners](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-github-hosted-runners/about-github-hosted-runners) have Python 2.7+ preinstalled. But if you are using a [self-hosted runners](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/about-self-hosted-runners), please have Python installed first.

## Usage
```yml
jobs:
  ftl_testing:
    # ...

    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v3
      - name: Build your Apps
        ...
      - id: ftl_test
        uses: FirebaseExtended/github-actions/firebase-test-lab@v1.1
        with:
          testapp_dir: ${{ testapp_dir }}
          test_type: ${{ test_type }}
```

## Inputs

-   `test_type`: One of the following four test types that FTL supports: [xctest](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/ios/run-xctest), [instrumentation](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/android/instrumentation-test), [robo](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/android/robo-ux-test), [game-loop](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/android/game-loop).

-   `testapp_dir`: Testapps under this dir that will be tested. For XCTest, make sure you [packaged your app](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/ios/run-xctest#package-app) first. [TODO: needs better design] For instrumentation tests, you also need to package the apks: make sure the test apk name contains string "test" and the app apk doesn't (e.g. app-debug-unaligned.apk & app-debug-test-unaligned.apk -> app.zip).

-   `arg_groups` [**robo** & **instrumentation** test only]: Arguments in a YAML-formatted argument file, separate by ";". If there are conflicts between `arg_groups` and other inputs, arguments in `arg_groups` will be overrided by other inputs. Run [gcloud topic arg-files](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/topic/arg-files) for more information about argument files.
    
    Here are the contents of a YAML argument file which is stored in a file named demo_arg.yaml:
    ```yml
    unit-tests:
      type: instrumentation
      app: path/to/excelsior.apk
      test: path/to/excelsior-test.apk  # the unit tests
      timeout: 10m
      device-ids: NexusLowRes
      include: [supported-versions, supported-locales]
    
    unit-tests-2:
    ...
    ```
    `arg_groups` usage example:
    ```yml
    jobs:
    ftl_testing:
        # ...

        steps:
        - uses: actions/checkout@v3
        - name: Build your Apps
            ...
        - id: ftl_test
          uses: FirebaseExtended/github-actions/firebase-test-lab@v1.1
          with:
            arg_groups: demo_arg.yaml:unit-tests;demo_arg.yaml:unit-tests-2
    ```

-   `test_devices`: Devices used for testing, separate by ";". You could find out all the available devices in Test Lab here: [Android](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/android/available-testing-devices), [iOS](https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/ios/available-testing-devices).
    `test_devices` usage example:
    ```yml
    jobs:
    ftl_testing:
        # ...

        steps:
        - uses: actions/checkout@v3
        - name: Build your Apps
            ...
        - id: ftl_test
          uses: FirebaseExtended/github-actions/firebase-test-lab@v1.1
          with:
            testapp_dir: ${{ testapp_dir }}
            test_type: ${{ test_type }}
            test_devices: model=redfin,version=30;model=oriole,version=33
    ```

-   `test_device_selection` [default: `all`]: Whether to run the tests on all devices listed in `test_devices` (separated by semicolons), or on one randomly-selected device from the list. Allowed values: [`all`, `random`].

-   `timeout` [default: 600s]: The maximum duration you want your test to run. You can enter an integer to represent the duration in seconds, or an integer and enumeration to represent the duration as a longer unit of time. 

-   `additional_flags`: Additional [gcloud firebase test](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/firebase/test) flags and values that may be used. e.g. `--xcode-version=11.3` for XCTest. 

-   `max_attempts` [default: 1]: Max retry attempts when test on FTL failed. 

-   (Optional) The following inputs are for installation and authenticating to Google Cloud. Firebase Test Lab GitHub Action leverages [google-github-actions/auth](https://github.com/google-github-actions/auth) and [google-github-actions/setup-gcloud](https://github.com/google-github-actions/setup-gcloud). 
    
    Example of authenticating via `credentials_json` (Service Account Key JSON). See [Creating and managing Google Cloud Service Account Keys](https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/creating-managing-service-account-keys) for more information.
    ```yml
    jobs:
    ftl_testing:
        # ...

        steps:
        - uses: actions/checkout@v3
        - name: Build your Apps
            ...
        - id: ftl_test
          uses: FirebaseExtended/github-actions/firebase-test-lab@v1.1
          with:
            credentials_json: ${{ secrets.GOOGLE_CREDENTIALS }}
            testapp_dir: ${{ testapp_dir }}
            test_type: ${{ test_type }}
    ```

    Example of authenticating via `workload_identity_provider` and `service_account` (Workload Identity Federation). See [Setting up Workload Identity Federation](https://github.com/google-github-actions/auth#setup) for more information. (Note: For interal Google Cloud projects, Workload Identity Federation cannot be used by default. Please use Overground to modify Org Policy first.)
    ```yml
    jobs:
    ftl_testing:
        # ...

        steps:
        - uses: actions/checkout@v3
        - name: Build your Apps
            ...
        - id: ftl_test
          uses: FirebaseExtended/github-actions/firebase-test-lab@v1.1
          with:
            workload_identity_provider: ${{ workload_identity_provider }}
            service_account: ${{ service_account }}
            testapp_dir: ${{ testapp_dir }}
            test_type: ${{ test_type }}
    ```

## Output

This GitHub Action will collection all the test results and generate a summary in the JSON format.

Output usage:
```yml
- id: ftl_test
    uses: FirebaseExtended/github-actions/firebase-test-lab@v1.1
    with:
      ...
- run: echo '${{ steps.ftl_test.outputs.test_summary }}'
```

Test summary example:
```
{
  "project_id": ${project_id},
  "apps": [
    { # app_1
      "attempt": ${attempt_num},
      "cmd": ${cmd},
      "return_code": ${return_code}, # Script exit codes: https://firebase.google.com/docs/test-lab/ios/command-line#script-exit-codes
      "testapp_path": ${app_path},
      "test_type": ${test_type}, # game-loop, xctest, robo, instrumentation
      "ftl_link": ${ftl_link}, # Test Lab page from Firebase console
      "raw_result_link":  ${raw_result_link}, # Google Cloud page that stores all the test artifacts
      "devices": [
        { # device_1
          "device_axis": ${device_axis},
          "outcome": ${outcome}, # Passed, Failed, Inconclusive, Skipped
        },
        { # device_2
          ... 
        }
      ],
    },
    { # app_2
      ...
    }
  ]
}
```
